Bless the Lord, O my soul; O Lord my God,
Thou hast been magnified exceedingly.
Confession and majesty hast Thou put on,
Who coverest Thyself with light as with a garment,
Who stretchest out the heaven as it were a curtain;
Who supporteth His chambers in the waters,
Who appointeth the clouds for His ascent,
Who walketh upon the wings of the winds,
Who maketh His angels spirits,
and His ministers a flame of fire.

Who establisheth the earth in the sureness thereof;
it shall not be turned back forever and ever.
The abyss like a garment is His mantle;
upon the mountains shall the waters stand.
At Thy rebuke they will flee,
at the voice of Thy thunder shall they be afraid.

The mountains rise up and the plains sink down,
unto the place where Thou hast established them.
Thou appointedst a bound that they shall not pass,
neither return to cover the earth. He sendeth
forth springs in the valleys;
between the mountains will the waters run.
They shall give drink to all the beasts of the field;
the wild asses will wait to quench their thirst.
Beside them will the birds
of the heaven lodge,
from the midst of the rocks will they give voice.

He watereth the mountains from His chambers;
the earth shall be satisfied with the fruit of Thy works.
He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle,
and green herb for the service of men,
to bring forth bread out of the earth;
and wine maketh glad the heart of man.
To make his face cheerful with oil;
and bread strengtheneth man’s heart.

The trees of the plain shall be satisfied,
the cedars of Lebanon, which Thou hast planted.
There will the sparrows make their nests;
the house of the heron is chief among them.
The high mountains are a refuge for the harts,
and so is the rock for the hares.

He hath made the moon for seasons;
the sun knoweth his going down.
Thou appointedst the darkness,
and there was the night,
wherein all the beasts of the forest will go abroad;
young lions roaring after their prey,
and seeking their food from God.
The sun ariseth, and they are gathered together,
and they lay them down in their dens.
Man shall go forth unto his work,
and to his labor until the evening.
How magnified are Thy works, O Lord!
In wisdom hast Thou made them all.

The earth is filled with Thy creation.
So is this great and spacious sea,
wherein are things creeping innumerable,
small living creatures with the great.
There go the ships; there this leviathan,
whom Thou hast made to play therein.
All things wait on Thee,
to give them their food in due season;
when Thou givest it them, they will gather it.
When Thou openest Thy hand,
all things shall be filled with goodness;
when Thou turnest away Thy face, they shall be troubled.
Thou wilt take their spirit, and they shall cease;
and unto their dust shall they return.
Thou wilt send forth Thy Spirit,
and they shall be created;
and Thou shalt renew the face of the earth.

Let the glory of the Lord be unto the ages;
the Lord will rejoice in His works.
Who looketh on the earth and maketh it tremble,
Who toucheth the mountains and they smoke.
I will sing unto the Lord throughout my life,
I will chant to my God for as long as I have my being.

May my words be sweet unto Him;
I will rejoice in the Lord.
O that sinners would cease from the earth,
and they that work iniquity,
that they should be no more.
Bless the Lord, O my soul.